okay everybody dr. Joel Parker here with
Vetri practice solutions for this week's
installment of whiteboard Wednesday now
what's going on out there is that you
guys we're all going into your busy
spring you know typically a practice
will slow down in the fall going into
winter and then about this time of year
where an early March it starts to take
off those of you in large animal
practice you're running that wild and
crazy up doing c-sections in the middle
of night the small animal guys you've
got a lot of you know kind of bite
wounds coming in animals who start need
to get out and move around and then on
top of that we've got heart room testing
and all the replenishing of the heart
room meds and so far that goes on and
early spring so the bottom line in this
is the time of year where you should be
nice and busy and you should be making
lots of money but the problem that we
went into is this typically what will
happen is that as your numbers start to
go up like this okay this is your number
of transactions typically what happens
is that your average plant transactions
start to go up and then it starts to
peak and it falls off we actually reach
at what I call the maximum clients per
minute the maximum CPM that's like their
the the rate limiter on a car engine
that'll cut it and what happens we see
this routinely is that use just as
you're starting to get really busy and
you should be making great profit in the
practice your average client transaction
falls down so the reason for that is
interruptions and what will happen is
that when you and I are super busy and
we're working with patients and so forth
just as we're about to complete writing
up the record and all the charges and so
forth we'll get into an interruption or
coming like hear that echo receptionist
will come up and ask us to do something
it will go off and we'll start handling
that action instead of completing the
one we're out and this what this
oftentimes does is that when we're just
about to write the plan okay you know
the SAT the the so plan subjective
objective and assessment plan we're
about to write the plan we get
interrupted and the plan could be such
as such heart room and such and such
tests it could be booked this dentistry
for next week and so forth so these
interruptions that are coming in or
actually are causing us not to finish
the task that we're on one of the
biggest sources of extra work you're
going to find in your practice that does
result in all of this you know increased
activity and the dropping of the average
client
action is not completing your client
record clear or your patient record so
one of the things here we need to get
into is have you slow it down so we're
gonna go right into action steps believe
it or not when you're running really
fast and furious a couple things to take
note of make sure you're well-fed
okay this time of year guys want you to
you know go to Costco go to wherever go
to Walmart and pick up boxes of power
bars and things like that make sure you
got food on hand so you're well-fed
federal well then what I want you to do
is slow it down and what I mean by
particularly like that is that before
you go and see your next patient make
sure that you are finishing the task of
the one you're on so that the rest of
your team can take that they can go
build up the charges in the invoice they
can go up you know fill the prescription
and so forth so slow it down finish your
task and then what a very very good
thing to do is be running a quick
quality control and bat checks on your
invoices what I would highly recommend
you do is that as an owner go in there
sometime at night is an owner initially
and then later on it's something you'll
pass on to your managers that you need
to go in and you need to run some
quality control on what was done and
what was charged for otherwise when it
gets busy you'll start missing charges
what this does is this this is you know
me this is a staff meeting materials
where you'll get together and you go
okay guys we had a super swamp in busy
week it's great but we missed this
amount of charges we've got to slow it
down we've got to get together so that
we are in communication so that when the
doctors are completing their records
that there's no invoice that's closed
and make sure that before patients are
going home later on in the afternoon
that the invoice is not closed without a
final check on it okay so this is staff
meeting materials okay so that's
basically your action steps when you
starting to get real busy forgot to put
that out one in there make sure you are
fed I'll put that in here that'll be
kind of our zero okay make sure our fed
have lots of food so you're not running
low on energy then slow it down finish
your task before you go on to the next
one and then it's a back check at the
end of the week print off some invoices
check the records and see if things
matched up okay guys that's all I got
for you this week we're into a great
spring we're into spring 2013 there's a
lot going on out there and joy being
busy let's just make sure we keep it
profitable and we don't inter we don't
end up dropping the average client
transaction okay guys I'll see you next
week we'll go from there